The President:
Over the last few weeks,
I've been talking a lot about
America's economic future.
I've told you how I believe we
should go about creating strong,
sustained growth.
How we should pay down
our long-term debt in a
balanced way.
And most of all, what we should
do right now to create good,
middle-class jobs so people
who work hard can get ahead.
This isn't some abstract debate
or trivial Washington argument.
I've said that this is the
defining issue of our time and
I mean it.
I've said that this is a
make-or-break moment for the
middle class and I believe it.
The decisions we make over the
next few years will have an
enormous impact on the country
we live in and the one we pass
on to our children.
Right now, we're still fighting
our way back from the worst
economic crisis since
the Great Depression.
The economy's growing again but
it's not growing fast enough.
Our businesses have created 4.3
million new jobs over the last
27 months but we're not
creating them fast enough.
And we're facing some
pretty serious headwinds --
the effects of the recent spike
in gas prices to the financial
crisis in Europe.
But here's the thing: We have
the answers to these problems.
We have plenty of big ideas and
technical solutions from both
sides of the aisle.
That's not what's
holding us back.
What's holding us back is
a stalemate in Washington.
Last September, I sent Congress
a jobs bill full of the kinds of
bipartisan ideas that could put
over a million Americans back to
work and help bolster our
economy against outside shocks.
I sent them a plan that
would've reduced our deficit by
$4 trillion in a balanced way
that pays for the investments we
need by cutting unnecessary
spending and by asking the
wealthiest Americans to pay
a little bit more in taxes.
Since then, Congress has passed
a few parts of that jobs bill --
like a tax cut that's allowing
working Americans to keep more
of your paycheck every week --
but on most of the ideas that
would create jobs
and grow our economy,
Republicans in Congress
have not lifted a finger.
They'd rather wait until after
the election in November.
Just this past week,
one of them said,
"Why not wait for
the reinforcements?"
That's a quote.
And you can bet plenty of
his colleagues are thinking
the same thing.
I think that's wrong.
This isn't about who wins
or loses in Washington.
This is about your jobs and
your paychecks and your
children's future.
There is no excuse for Congress
to stand by and do nothing while
so many families are struggling.
No reason whatsoever.
And right now, Congress should
pass a bill to help states put
thousands of teachers and
firefighters and police officers
back on the job.
They should've passed a bill a
long time ago to put thousands
of construction workers back to
work rebuilding our roads and
bridges and runways.
And instead of just talking
about job creators,
they should give small business
owners a tax break for hiring
more workers and paying
them higher wages.
Right now, Congress should give
every responsible homeowner the
opportunity to save an average
of $3,000 a year by refinancing
their mortgage.
They should extend tax credits
for clean energy manufacturers
so we don't walk away
from 40,000 good jobs.
And instead of giving tax breaks
to companies who ship jobs
overseas, Congress should take
that money and use it to cover
moving expenses for companies
that are bringing jobs back
to America.
There is no reason to wait.
So you see, every problem
we face is within our power
to solve.
What's lacking is our politics.
I need you to remind your
Members of Congress why you sent
them to Washington
in the first place.
Tell them to stop worrying about
the next election and start
worrying about the
next generation.
I'm ready to work
with anyone --
Republican, Democrat
or Independent --
who is serious about moving
this country forward.
And I hope Members of
Congress will join me.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.